OBS_SETUP.md, before:

# OBS Setup

These are instructions on setting up OBS (Open Broadcaster Software) to record screen activity for creating the multimodal computer dataset.

## Installation

1. Go to the OBS Project website: [https://obsproject.com/](https://obsproject.com/).
2. Choose the appropriate installer for your operating system.
3. 
   ![Operating System Selection](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-17%20220155.png)

3. Run the installer from your downloads folder and grant OBS the necessary permissions for installation.

   ![Installer Run](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-24%20115916.png)

4. Keep the default settings and proceed through the installation wizard by clicking "Next" and then "Finish."

   ![Installation Wizard](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-24%20120133.png)

5. OBS should now be open. If not, search for and open the application.

   ![Open OBS](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-17%20221407.png)

## Enabling OBS WebSocket Server

1. Click on "Tools" in the Navigation Bar within OBS, and then select "WebSocket Server Settings." A pop-up window will appear.

   ![WebSocket Server Settings](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-17%20221553.png)

2. Check the box next to "Enable WebSocket server" and uncheck the box next to "Enable Authentication." Click "Apply," then "Ok." You should return to the main OBS page.

   ![Enable WebSocket Server](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-24%20120347.png)

## Adding Display Capture and Recording

1. Now, back on the home page of OBS, select "Scene." Under "Sources," click the "+" button and then click "Display Capture." (in MacOS this is MacOS Screen Capture)

   ![Display Capture](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-24%20110823.png)

2. Select "Ok."

   ![Confirm Display Capture](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-24%20111017.png)

3. Make sure the "Display" is set to your main display, and you should see your screen on the canvas. Select "Ok." _(in MacOS if your screen is black with a red square in the top left try to disable then re-enable OBS Screen Recording permissions, this has worked before)_

   ![Main Display](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-24%20112001.png)

4. Now you can close OBS and OBS will opened and controlled automatically when you launch the Computer Tracker App. Also, the Computer Tracker app creates a new OBS profile so you don't have to worry about your previous settings being messed up.

   ![Recording in Progress](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-24%20113548.png)

Commit message:

Initial commit: Captr for macOS - Screen recording and interaction capture tool

OBS_SETUP.md, after:

# OBS Setup for Captr

These are instructions on setting up OBS (Open Broadcaster Software) to work with Captr for screen recording.

## Installation

1. Go to the OBS Project website: [https://obsproject.com/](https://obsproject.com/).
2. Choose the appropriate installer for your operating system.
3. 
   ![Operating System Selection](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-17%20220155.png)

3. Run the installer from your downloads folder and grant OBS the necessary permissions for installation.

   ![Installer Run](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-24%20115916.png)

4. Keep the default settings and proceed through the installation wizard by clicking "Next" and then "Finish."

   ![Installation Wizard](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-24%20120133.png)

5. OBS should now be open. If not, search for and open the application.

   ![Open OBS](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-17%20221407.png)

## Enabling OBS WebSocket Server

1. Click on "Tools" in the Navigation Bar within OBS, and then select "WebSocket Server Settings." A pop-up window will appear.

   ![WebSocket Server Settings](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-17%20221553.png)

2. Check the box next to "Enable WebSocket server" and uncheck the box next to "Enable Authentication." Click "Apply," then "Ok." You should return to the main OBS page.

   ![Enable WebSocket Server](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-24%20120347.png)

## Adding Display Capture and Recording

1. Now, back on the home page of OBS, select "Scene." Under "Sources," click the "+" button and then click "Display Capture." (in MacOS this is MacOS Screen Capture)

   ![Display Capture](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-24%20110823.png)

2. Select "Ok."

   ![Confirm Display Capture](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-24%20111017.png)

3. Make sure the "Display" is set to your main display, and you should see your screen on the canvas. Select "Ok." _(in MacOS if your screen is black with a red square in the top left try to disable then re-enable OBS Screen Recording permissions, this has worked before)_

   ![Main Display](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-24%20112001.png)

4. Now you can close OBS. Captr will open and control OBS automatically when you start recording. Captr creates a separate OBS profile so your existing OBS settings won't be affected.

   ![Recording in Progress](readme_images/Screenshot%202023-06-24%20113548.png)
